Process Creation in Graphene SGX
================================

.. warning::

   This explanation is partially outdated. It is intended only as an internal
   reference for developers of Graphene, not as a general documentation for
   Graphene users.

.. highlight:: text

Fork in Graphene-SGX
--------------------

Fork() system call is intercepted in the `shim_do_fork()` LibOS function.
This function performs three tasks:

1. discovers the namespace leader,
2. creates a LibOS `shim_thread` structure for a new thread, and
3. calls `do_migrate_process()`.

The first two tasks are trivial, so we concentrate on the third one.


Parent: Fork via `do_migrate_process`
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^
The function `do_migrate_process()` creates a new process in the
underlying OS, establishes a |~| channel between the current process and the
newly created child process, collects checkpoint data from the parent process,
sends the checkpoint to the child process, and establishes an IPC port to listen
for events from the child process (such as death of the child).

To implement this logic, `do_migrate_process()` calls the following
functions:

1. `_DkProcessCreate()` -- PAL-specific creation of the process in the
   underlying OS. For SGX PAL, this function performs ``clone()`` + ``execve()``
   system calls in underlying Linux to create a new process. The new (child)
   process can communicate with the parent process via Unix pipes. Using these
   pipes, the parent and the child establish a shared secret via Diffie-Hellman
   (DH) key exchange. A simple Key Derivation Function (KDF) is used to derive
   a shared 16B AES-CMAC key. Ideally, messages between the parent and the child
   are encrypted and signed by this shared key. Currently, this shared key is
   used only for mutual authentication of the parent and the child. As part of
   mutual authentication, the child sends its REPORT (generated by EREPORT) to
   the parent who verifies it, and the parent sends its REPORT to the child, who
   in turn verifies it.

2. ``*migrate()`` -- function pointer to collect checkpoint data from the parent
   process (e.g., shim structures for process metadata, threads metadata, loaded
   libraries metadata, mounted points with FS metadata, VMAs, etc.). The
   checkpoint is created in trusted enclave memory and is never persisted (so it
   does not lead to leaks). For the fork case, the actual function is
   `migrate_fork()`. This function collects absolutely all shim data on
   the current state of the parent process.

3. `send_checkpoint_on_stream()` -- sends the whole checkpoint to the
   child using :func:`DkStreamWrite()`. The only interesting thing about this
   function is that data is sent in plaintext. For SGX, the data must be
   encrypted in this function.


Child: Initialization after Fork
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^
After the child is created, Pal-Linux-SGX enters the enclave using EENTER. The
enclave code calls `pal_linux_main()` which in turn calls
`init_child_process()`. The `init_child_process()` function serves
as a child counterpart of the `_DkProcessCreate()` logic of the parent.
After `init_child_process()` successfully authenticates the parent,
`pal_linux_main()` ends up calling `pal_main()` which calls
`start_execution()` which finally invokes the entry point of LibOS --
`shim_start()`. `shim_start()` simply calls `shim_init()`,
which reads the checkpoint from the network, restores it in child enclave's
memory, and finally jumps to checkpointed RIP.

In particular, these are the important child functions for fork:

1. `init_child_process()` -- a counterpart function to parent's
   `_DkProcessCreate()`. It inherits Unix pipes to communicate with the parent.
   Using these pipes, the child establishes a share secret via DH key exchange
   with the parent. The rest is similar to the logic in
   :func:`DkProcessCreate()`. At the end of this function, the child
   successfully authenticated the parent process.

2. `do_migration()` -- reads the checkpoint from the network using
   :func:`DkStreamRead()`. You can think of `do_migration()` as
   a |~| counterpart to `send_checkpoint_on_stream()`. This function is
   called from `shim_init()`.

3. `restore_checkpoint()` -- restores checkpoint in child enclave's
   memory. You can think of `restore_checkpoint()` as a |~| counterpart
   to `migrate_fork()`. This function is called from `shim_init()`.


Fork Flows
----------

**High-level flow** between the parent and the child on fork looks as follows::

      Parent                                                        Child
   +---------------------------------------+                     +----------------------------------------+

   fork() system call
   +
   +  do_migrate_process()
      +
      |  _DkProcessCreate()
      |  +                                clone() & execve()
      |  |  <create new process>  +----------------------------> OS starts Pal-Linux-SGX
      |  |                                                       +
      |  |                                                       +  Newly created enclave does EENTER
      |  |                                                          +
      |  |                                                          +  pal_linux_main()
      |  |                                                             +
      |  |                                                             |  init_child_process()
      |  |                                                             |  +
      |  +  <mutual authentication flow>  <------------------------->  |  +  <mutual authentication flow>
      |                                                                |
      |  cpstore = migrate_fork()                                      +  shim_init()
      |  +                                                                +
      |  |  <checkpoint shim state>                                       |  do_migration()
      |  |                                                                |  +
      |  +  <checkpoint memory contents>                                  |  |
      |                                                                   |  |
      +  send_checkpoint_on_stream(cpstore)                               |  |
         +                                                                |  |
         +  _DkStreamWrite(cpstore)  +--------------------------------->  |  +  cpstore = _DkStreamRead()
                                                                        |
   DONE WITH FORK                                                         |  restore_checkpoint(cpstore)
                                                                        |  +
                                                                        |  +  <restore in enclave memory>
                                                                        |
                                                                        +  <jump to checkpointed RIP>

                                                                        CONTINUE EXECUTION AFTER FORK

**Mutual authentication flow** between the parent and the child (mentioned in
the previous diagram) looks as follows::

      Parent                                                        Child
   +---------------------------------------+                     +----------------------------------------+

   _DkProcessCreate()                                            init_child_process()
   +                                                             +
   |  session_key = _DkStreamKeyExchange()                       |  session_key = _DkStreamKeyExchange()
   |  +                                                          |  +
   |  |  lib_DhInit()                                            |  |  lib_DhInit()
   |  |                                                          |  |
   |  |  parent_pub = lib_DhCreatePublic()                       |  |  child_pub = lib_DhCreatePublic()
   |  |                                             DH           |  |
   |  |  _DkStreamWrite(parent_pub)  +----------  ------------>  |  |  _DkStreamWrite(child_pub)
   |  |                                         \/               |  |
   |  |  child_pub = _DkStreamRead()  <---------/\------------+  |  |  parent_pub = _DkStreamRead()
   |  |                                                          |  |
   |  |  session_key = lib_DhCalcSecret()                        |  |  session_key = lib_DhCalcSecret()
   |  |                                                          |  |
   |  +  session_key = KDF(session_key) to 32B                   |  +  session_key = KDF(session_key) to 32B
   |                                                             |
   |  mac_key = session_key_to_mac_key()                         |  mac_key = session_key_to_mac_key()
   |  +                                                          |  +
   |  +  mac_key = KDF(session_key) to 16B                       |  +  mac_key = KDF(session_key) to 16B
   |                                                             |
   |  parent_eid = MAC(enclave_id) with mac_key                  |  child_eid = MAC(enclave_id) with mac_key
   |                                                             |
   +  _DkStreamAttestationRespond()                              +  _DkStreamAttestationRespond()
      +                                                             +
      +  <SGX attestation flow>  <------------------------------->  +  <SGX attestation flow>

   AUTHENTICATION COMPLETED                                      AUTHENTICATION COMPLETED

**SGX attestation flow** between the parent and the child (mentioned in the
previous diagram) looks as follows::

      Parent                                                        Child
   +---------------------------------------+                     +----------------------------------------+

   _DkStreamAttestationRequest()                                 _DkStreamAttestationRespond()
   +                                                             +
   |  parent_targetinfo =                                        |
   |    {parent_mrenclave, parent_encl_attrs}                    |
   |                                                             |
   |  _DkStreamWrite(parent_targetinfo)  +-------------------->  |  parent_targetinfo = _DkStreamRead()
   |                                                             |
   |                                                             |  child_report = EREPORT(
   |                                                             |      targetinfo = parent_targetinfo,
   |                                                             |      reportdata = {
   |                                                             |         child_enclave_flags,
   |                                                             |         child_enclave_id,
   |                                                             |         mac = MAC(child_eid)
   |                                                             |         }
   |                                                             |  )
   |                                                             |
   |  child_report = _DkStreamRead()  <-----------------------+  |  _DkStreamWrite(child_report)
   |                                                             |
   |  sgx_verify_report(child_report)                            |
   |  +                                                          |
   |  +  <SGX report verification>                               |
   |                                                             |
   |  check_child_mrenclave(child_report, mac_key)               |
   |  +                                                          |
   |  +  <SGX trusted-child check>                               |
   |                                                             |
   |  child_targetinfo =                                         |
   |    {child_report.mrenclave,                                 |
   |     child_report.encl_attrs}                                |
   |                                                             |
   |  parent_report = EREPORT(                                   |
   |      targetinfo = child_targetinfo,                         |
   |      reportdata = {                                         |
   |         parent_enclave_flags,                               |
   |         parent_enclave_id,                                  |
   |         mac = MAC(parent_eid)                               |
   |         }                                                   |
   |  )                                                          |
   |                                                             |
   +  _DkStreamWrite(parent_report)  +------------------------>  |  parent_report = _DkStreamRead()
                                                               |
   ATTESTATION COMPLETED                                         |  sgx_verify_report(parent_report)
                                                               |  +
                                                               |  +  <SGX report verification>
                                                               |
                                                               |  check_parent_mrenclave(parent_report, mac_key)
                                                               |  +
                                                               +  +  <SGX trusted-parent check>

                                                               ATTESTATION COMPLETED

(The current source code contains `att` -- the attestation structure describing
the child/parent process. This `att` wrapper around SGX report is redundant. In
the diagram above, it is omitted.)


**SGX report verification** logic (mentioned in the previous diagram) looks as
follows::

      Parent and child
   +---------------------------------------------------------+

   sgx_verify_report(report)
   +
   |  report_key = EGETKEY(keyrequest = {
   |                         keyname = REPORT_KEY,
   |                         keyid   = report.keyid})
   |
   |  check_mac = MAC(all report except keyid) with report_key
   |
   |  check_mac == report.mac ?
   |    +-------------------------------------------------+
   |    |  Proof that received report was generated by    |
   |    |  the legitimate (and same) SGX machine.         |
   |    |  Report fields can be trusted (e.g., MRENCLAVE) |
   +    +-------------------------------------------------+

   REPORT VERIFIED

**SGX trusted-child / trusted-parent check** (mentioned in the previous diagram)
looks as follows::

      Parent                                                        Child
   +---------------------------------------------------+         +---------------------------------------------------+

   check_child_mrenclave(child_report, mac_key)                  check_parent_mrenclave(parent_report, mac_key)
   +                                                             +
   |  check_child_eid = MAC(                                     |  check_parent_eid = MAC(
   |      child_report.reportdata.child_enclave_id)              |      parent_report.reportdata.parent_enclave_id)
   |      with mac_key                                           |      with mac_key
   |                                                             |
   |  check_child_eid == child_report.reportdata.mac ?           |  check_parent_eid == parent_report.reportdata.mac ?
   |    +---------------------------------------------+          |    +---------------------------------------------+
   |    |  Proof that the child posseses the same     |          |    |  Proof that the parent posseses the same    |
   |    |  shared key (derived from DH key exchange)  |          |    |  shared key (derived from DH key exchange)  |
   |    +---------------------------------------------+          |    +---------------------------------------------+
   |                                                             |
   |  child_report.mrenclave == parent_mrenclave ?               +  <MISSING: need a check that the parent is trusted>
   |
   |  OR                                                         TRUSTED-PARENT CHECK COMPLETED
   |
   |  child_report.mrenclave IN trusted_children ?
   |    +----------------------------------------------+
   |    |  Proof that child is either the same enclave |
   |    |  or one of the trusted children enclaves     |
   |    |  specified in the manifest                   |
   +    +----------------------------------------------+

   TRUSTED-CHILD CHECK COMPLETED

Notes for the above diagrams:

- Diffie-Hellman is implemented using mbedTLS primitives. The configuration
  parameters are MBEDTLS_DHM_RFC3526_MODP_2048_P,
  MBEDTLS_DHM_RFC3526_MODP_2048_G, DH_SIZE=256.

- The Key Derivation Function (KDF) used here is very simple: it XORs 32B/16B
  chunks of the input key to produce a 32B/16B output key. This KDF is weak.

- The MAC function is actually AES-CMAC of mbedTLS. For the 16B mac-key, it uses
  the MBEDTLS_CIPHER_AES_128_ECB cipher. The format in the diagram is `MAC(data1
  || data2) with mac-key`.

- `enclave_id` is the Enclave Identifier -- a 64-bit random number generated as
  part of the app initialization inside SGX enclave. Thus, `enclave_id` is
  dynamic and unique per enclave instance (in contrast to MRENCLAVE).
  `enclave_id` is needed to distinguish between two instance of the same enclave
  image. Also, `enclave_id` is needed to protect against replay attacks.

- SGX report produced by EREPORT contains: enclave's MRENCLAVE, MRSIGNER,
  ISVPRODID, ISVSVN, CPUSVN, and attributes (all copy-pasted from enclave's
  SECS), as well as a nonce keyid (randomly-generated by EREPORT), and
  reportdata (copy-pasted from input reportdata). All fields in the report are
  MACed, except for keyid. The report also contains the MAC itself.


Open Issues
-----------

- There is *no* encryption at any moment of the fork protocol. For example, the
  complete checkpoint is passed to the child in plaintext. Ideally, the
  pipe/stream between the parent and the child must be always encrypted as soon
  as the shared DH key is established. This would require changes in the SGX
  PAL's implementation of `DkStreamWrite()`, `DkStreamRead()`, etc.

- Currently used KDF is weak. It is not clear whether this weakens the generated
  MACs. Can the attacker reconstruct `mac-key` by observing the passed MACed
  (`child_report.reportdata.mac` and `parent_report.reportdata.mac`)? Also, the
  double use of KDF is strange: first the 128B DH key is KDFed to 32B, and then
  again to 16B.

- The missing trusted-parent-enclave check in `check_parent_mrenclave()` opens
  an attack vector. The attacker can start a malicious enclave which spawns
  a benign child (by tweaking untrusted PAL's logic in the child process). This
  malicious enclave is happily authenticated by the child. Now there exists
  a communication channel between the attacker-controlled malicious enclave and
  the victim child.

- It is not clear if the current check in `check_child_mrenclave()` and
  `check_parent_mrenclave()` is sufficient to protect against replay attacks.
  (Can the attacker actually do anything malicious with stale messages from the
  old child or parent?) Ideally, we want both the parent and the child to
  challenge each other using a cryptographic nonce (the nonce can simply be the
  enclave ID?).

- Performance optimization: to reduce latency of fork, the authentication
  process can run in parallel with `migrate_fork()`. Currently, the parent first
  waits to finish the authentication of the child and then starts collecting the
  checkpoint.


Appendix A: Source Files
------------------------

Parent:

- `shim_do_fork()`: `LibOS/shim/src/sys/shim_fork.c`
- `do_migrate_process()`: `LibOS/shim/src/shim_checkpoint.c`
- `_DkProcessCreate()`: `Pal/src/host/Linux-SGX/db_process.c`
- `migrate_fork()`: `LibOS/shim/src/sys/shim_fork.c`
- `send_checkpoint_on_stream()`: `LibOS/shim/src/shim_checkpoint.c`

Child:

- `init_child_process()`: `Pal/src/host/Linux-SGX/db_process.c`
- `do_migration()`: `LibOS/shim/src/shim_checkpoint.c`
- `restore_checkpoint()`: `LibOS/shim/src/shim_checkpoint.c`
