Attestation
===========

Graphene is typically used to create and run Trusted Execution Environments
(:term:`TEE`). A very important aspect of a TEE is :term:`Attestation`. Broadly
speaking, attestation is a mechanism for a remote user to verify that the
application runs on a real hardware in an up-to-date TEE with the expected
initial state.

There are two types of attestation: :term:`Local Attestation` and
:term:`Remote Attestation`. Local attestation is used when two TEEs run on the
same physical machine and remote attestation is used when a user attests a TEE
running on a remote physical machine. In the following, we discuss only
:term:`Remote Attestation`. Moreover, even though Graphene attestation flows are
designed to be TEE-agnostic, we discuss only :term:`SGX` remote attestation
flows (the SGX flows are currently the only ones implemented).

By itself, attestation only provides the assurance to the user that the remotely
executing TEE is trusted, that the correct code is executed and that the data is
processed securely. In addition to this assurance, the user needs to create a
:term:`Secure Channel` for trusted communication with the remote TEE. In many
cases, the user also wants :term:`Secret Provisioning` to transparently
provision secret keys and other sensitive data to the remote TEE.

Graphene provides support for all three levels of attestation flows:

#. :term:`Remote Attestation` is exposed to the application via
   ``/dev/attestation`` pseudo-filesystem. Remote attestation in Graphene uses
   the Intel SGX PSW's AESM service and the Intel DCAP libraries under the hood.

#. :term:`Secure Channel` is constructed using the RA-TLS libraries.
   :term:`RA-TLS` uses raw ``/dev/attestation`` pseudo-files under the hood.

#. :term:`Secret Provisioning` is built using the Secret Provisioning libraries.
   These libraries use RA-TLS under the hood.

Applications running under Graphene can use each of the above three levels to
build their attestation flows. Each next level builds on the previous one and
exposes a simpler API to the application (but also is more restricted in its
functionality).


Low-level ``/dev/attestation`` interface
----------------------------------------

The first level of the ``/dev/attestation`` pseudo-filesystem exposes the
low-level abstractions of *attestation report* and *attestation quote* objects
(:term:`SGX Report` and :term:`SGX Quote` in SGX parlance), in the form of two
pseudo-files:

- ``/dev/attestation/user_report_data`` pseudo-file can be opened for read or
  write access. Typically, it is opened and written into before opening and
  reading from the ``/dev/attestation/quote`` file, such that the latter can use
  the user-provided report data. In case of Intel SGX, user report data can be
  an arbitrary string of size 64B; this string is embedded in the SGX quote.

- ``/dev/attestation/quote`` pseudo-file can be opened for read access. Before
  opening this file for read, user report data must be written into
  ``/dev/attestation/user_report_data``. Otherwise the obtained attestation
  quote will contain incorrect or stale user report data.

  The resulting quote can be passed to another TEE or service as part of the
  remote attestation flow. In case of Intel SGX, the obtained quote is the SGX
  quote created by the :term:`Quoting Enclave`.

Using these two files, the user application may construct arbitrary attestation
flows. Typically, the application will write a secure hash of the unique public
key generated by the TEE instance into ``/dev/attestation/user_report_data``,
such that when the remote user receives the SGX quote (with user report data
embedded), the remote user can tie the TEE instance to the TEE's public key.

In case of Intel SGX, the ``/dev/attestation/user_report_data`` pseudo-file uses
the ``EREPORT`` hardware instruction and the ``/dev/attestation/quote``
pseudo-file uses the Quoting Enclave accessed via the AESM service.

Please note that these files are process-local, so there is no need to add
locking between processes when setting the user report data or reading the
quote.

An example of this low-level interface can be found under
``LibOS/shim/test/regression/attestation.c``. Here is a C code snippet of how
the remote attestation flow may look like in your application::

    sgx_report_data_t user_report_data = {0};
    memcpy(&user_report_data, "some-dummy-data", sizeof(user_report_data));

    int fd1 = open("/dev/attestation/user_report_data", O_WRONLY);
    write(fd1, &user_report_data, sizeof(user_report_data));

    uint8_t quote[SGX_QUOTE_MAX_SIZE];
    int fd2 = open("/dev/attestation/quote", O_RDONLY);
    read(fd2, &quote, sizeof(quote));

    /* ...send `quote` to the remote user for verification... */

The remote user should receive this attestation quote and verify it. In case of
Intel SGX, this verification flow depends on whether the SGX remote attestation
is EPID based or DCAP/ECDSA based:

- :term:`EPID` based quote verification is done with the help of the Intel
  Attestation Service (:term:`IAS`). In particular, the remote user should
  forward the received SGX quote to the well-known IAS endpoint via a secure
  internet connection and get the IAS attestation report (not to be confused
  with SGX report!) back. The user then should examine the contents of the IAS
  attestation report and decide whether to trust the remote SGX enclave or not.

- :term:`DCAP` based quote verification is done with the help of the Intel DCAP
  libraries. These libraries encapsulate the complicated DCAP flows (extracting
  Intel SGX certificates from the
  :term:`Intel Provisioning Certification Service`, caching these certificates
  in the Provisioning Certificate Caching Service, etc.).

Graphene does *not* provide any pseudo-files under ``/dev/attestation`` for
verification of the attestation quote. Instead, the remote user is encouraged to
use the :program:`quote_dump`, :program:`ias_request` and
:program:`verify_ias_report` tools shipped together with Graphene (for
EPID based quote verification) or to use the Intel DCAP libraries and tools (for
DCAP based quote verification).


Mid-level RA-TLS interface
--------------------------

As can be seen from the previous section, the low-level ``/dev/attestation``
interface provides only bare-bones TEE attestation functionality and does not
provide any convenient interface for user-side quote verification. Also, that
low-level interface provides no means to transfer any data to/from the TEE other
than the attestation quote itself.

:term:`RA-TLS` interface hides the complexity of the low-level
``/dev/attestation`` flows and provides a simple and powerful abstraction of a
TLS connection between the TEE and the remote user (enhanced with
remote-attestation flows). Using RA-TLS, the application can securely send and
receive arbitrary data to/from the remote user. RA-TLS is currently tied to
Intel SGX but can be adapted for other TEEs.

RA-TLS integrates Intel SGX remote attestation into the TLS connection setup.
Conceptually, it extends the standard X.509 certificate with SGX-related
information (SGX quote). The additional information allows the remote user
(verifier) of the certificate to verify that it is indeed communicating with an
SGX enclave (attester). RA-TLS is shipped as three libraries:
``ra_tls_attest.so``, EPID based ``ra_tls_verify_epid.so`` and DCAP/ECDSA based
``ra_tls_verify_dcap.so``.

The examples of using RA-TLS can be found under ``Examples/ra-tls-mbedtls``.

``ra_tls_attest.so``
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

This library creates the self-signed RA-TLS certificate. This library must be
loaded into the SGX enclave. The library relies on the pseudo-FS
``/dev/attestation`` to retrieve the SGX quote and embed it into the RA-TLS
certificate. The library is *not* thread-safe.

The library expects the following information in the manifest for EPID based
attestation:

- ``sgx.remote_attestation = 1`` -- remote attestation is enabled.
- ``sgx.ra_client_spid`` -- client SPID for EPID remote attestation.
- ``sgx.ra_client_linkable`` -- client linkable/unlinkable attestation mode.

For DCAP/ECDSA based attestation, the library expects instead:

- ``sgx.remote_attestation = 1`` -- remote attestation is enabled.
- ``sgx.ra_client_spid = ""`` -- hints that this is a DCAP attestation, *not*
  EPID attestation.

The library uses the following environment variables if available:

- ``RA_TLS_CERT_TIMESTAMP_NOT_BEFORE`` -- the generated RA-TLS certificate uses
  this timestamp-not-before value, in the format "20010101000000" (this is also
  the default value if environment variable is not available).
- ``RA_TLS_CERT_TIMESTAMP_NOT_AFTER`` -- the generated RA-TLS certificate uses
  this timestamp-not-after value, in the format "20301231235959" (this is also
  the default value if environment variable is not available).

``ra_tls_verify_epid.so``
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

This library contains the verification callback that should be registered with
the TLS library during verification of the TLS certificate. It verifies the
RA-TLS certificate and the SGX quote by sending it to the Intel Attestation
Service (IAS) and retrieving the attestation report from IAS. This library is
*not* thread-safe.

The library uses the following SGX-specific environment variables, representing
SGX measurements, if available:

- ``RA_TLS_MRSIGNER`` (optional) -- verify that the attesting enclave has this
  ``MRSIGNER``. This is a hex string.
- ``RA_TLS_MRENCLAVE`` (optional) -- verify that the attesting enclave has this
  ``MRENCLAVE``. This is a hex string.
- ``RA_TLS_ISV_PROD_ID`` (optional) -- verify that the attesting enclave has
  this ``ISV_PROD_ID``. This is a decimal string.
- ``RA_TLS_ISV_SVN`` (optional) -- verify that the attesting enclave has this
  ``ISV_SVN``. This is a decimal string.

The four SGX measurements above may be also verified via a user-specified
callback with the signature ``int (*callback)(char* mrenclave, char* mrsigner,
char* isv_prod_id, char* isv_svn)``. This callback must be registered via
``ra_tls_set_measurement_callback()``. The measurements from the received SGX
quote are passed as four arguments. It is up to the user to implement the
correct verification of SGX measurements in this callback (e.g., by comparing
against expected values stored in a central database).

The library also uses the following SGX-specific environment variable:

- ``RA_TLS_ALLOW_OUTDATED_TCB_INSECURE`` (optional) -- whether to allow outdated
  TCB as returned in the IAS attestation report or returned by the DCAP
  verification library. Values ``1/true/TRUE`` mean "allow outdated TCB". Note
  that allowing outdated TCB is **insecure** and should be used only for
  debugging and testing. Outdated TCB is not allowed by default.

The library uses the following EPID-specific environment variables if available:

- ``RA_TLS_EPID_API_KEY`` (mandatory) -- client API key for EPID remote
  attestation.
- ``RA_TLS_IAS_REPORT_URL`` (optional) -- URL for IAS "verify attestation
  evidence" API endpoint. If not specified, the default hard-coded URL for IAS
  is used.
- ``RA_TLS_IAS_SIGRL_URL`` (optional) -- URL for IAS "Retrieve SigRL" API
  endpoint. If not specified, the default hard-coded URL for IAS is used.
- ``RA_TLS_IAS_PUB_KEY_PEM`` (optional) -- public key of IAS. If not specified,
  the default hard-coded public key is used.

``ra_tls_verify_dcap.so``
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

Similarly to ``ra_tls_verify_epid.so``, this library contains the verification
callback that should be registered with the TLS library during verification of
the TLS certificate. Verifies the RA-TLS certificate and the SGX quote by
forwarding it to DCAP verification library (``libsgx_dcap_quoteverify.so``) and
checking the result. This library is *not* thread-safe.

The library uses the same SGX-specific environment variables as
``ra_tls_verify_epid.so`` and ignores the EPID-specific environment variables.
Similarly to the EPID version, instead of using environment variables, the four
SGX measurements may be verified via a user-specified callback registered via
``ra_tls_set_measurement_callback()``.

The library expects all the DCAP infrastructure to be installed and working
correctly on the host.


High-level Secret Provisioning interface
----------------------------------------

In some cases, the mid-level interface of RA-TLS is an overkill. Sometimes all
the TEE application needs is a couple secrets provisioning into it and nothing
more. E.g., an image recognition application may only need a single encryption
key to decrypt the inputs (model file, classification file, image file) and the
same key to encrypt the outputs. Such an application doesn't need a TLS
communication with the remote user but simply a way to securely obtain this
single key from a well-known location.

This is the scenario where the high-level :term:`Secret Provisioning` interface
comes into play. Secret Provisioning is shipped together with Graphene in the
form of (helper) shared libraries. These libraries are reference implementations
for the flows to provision secrets from a trusted machine (service, verifier) to
an enclavized application (client, attester). These libraries rely heavily on
RA-TLS and re-use the same configuration parameters as listed in the previous
section.

Secret Provisioning libraries hide the complexity of RA-TLS but use it under the
hood for communication between the enclavized application and the trusted
service. Conceptually, an enclavized client application and a trusted service
establish a secure RA-TLS communication channel via TLS mutual attestation. The
service sends its normal X.509 certificate for verification by client, whereas
the enclavized client sends its RA-TLS X.509 certificate with the SGX quote for
verification by the service. After this mutual attestation, the trust is
established, and the service provisions the secrets to the enclavized client.
The established TLS channel may be either closed after provisioning these
initial secrets or may be further used by both parties for continued secure
communication.

Secret Provisioning is shipped as three libraries: ``secret_prov_attest.so``,
EPID based ``secret_prov_verify_epid.so`` and DCAP/ECDSA based
``secret_prov_verify_dcap.so``.

The examples of using RA-TLS can be found under ``Examples/ra-tls-secret-prov``.
The examples include minimalistic provisioning of constant-string secrets as
well as provisioning of an encryption key and its later use for protected files.

``secret_prov_attest.so``
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

This library is typically linked into enclavized applications. The application
calls into this library to initiate the RA-TLS session with the remote trusted
service for secret provisioning. Alternatively, the library runs before
application's entry point, initializes the RA-TLS session, receives the secret
and stashes it in an environment variable ``SECRET_PROVISION_SECRET_STRING``.
In both cases, the application may call into the library to continue secure
communication with the trusted party and/or to retrieve the secret. This
library is *not* thread-safe.

The library expects the same configuration information in the manifest and
environment variables as RA-TLS. In addition, the library uses the following
environment variables if available:

- ``SECRET_PROVISION_CONSTRUCTOR`` (optional) -- set it to ``1/true/TRUE`` to
  initialize the RA-TLS session and retrieve the secret before the application
  starts. By default, it is not set, thus secret provisioning must be explicitly
  requested by the application.

- ``SECRET_PROVISION_SET_PF_KEY`` (optional) -- set it to ``1/true/TRUE`` to
  indicate that the provisioned secret is a protected-files master key. The key
  must be a 32-char null-terminated AES-GCM encryption key in hex format,
  similar to ``sgx.protected_files_key`` manifest option. This environment
  variable is checked only if ``SECRET_PROVISION_CONSTRUCTOR`` is set.

- ``SECRET_PROVISION_SERVERS`` (optional) -- a comma, semicolon or space
  separated list of server names with ports to connect to for secret
  provisioning. Example: ``localhost:4433;trusted-server:443``. If not set,
  defaults to ``localhost:4433``. Alternatively, the application can specify it
  as an argument of ``secret_provision_start()``.

- ``SECRET_PROVISION_CA_CHAIN_PATH`` (required) -- a path to the CA chain of
  certificates to verify the server. Alternatively, the application can specify
  it as an argument of ``secret_provision_start()``.

The secret may be retrieved by the application in two ways:

- Reading ``SECRET_PROVISION_SECRET_STRING`` environment variable. It is updated
  only if ``SECRET_PROVISION_CONSTRUCTOR`` is set to true and if the secret is
  representable as a string of maximum 4K characters.

- Calling ``secret_provision_get()`` function. It always updates its pointer
  argument to the secret (or ``NULL`` if secret provisioning failed).

``secret_prov_verify_epid.so``
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

This library is typically linked into a normal, non-enclavized application
(secret provisioning service). The service calls into this library to listen for
clients in an endless loop. When a new client connects, the service initiates an
RA-TLS session with the client, verifies the RA-TLS X.509 certificate of the
client, and provisions the secret to the client if verification is successful.
The service can register a callback to continue secure communication with the
client (instead of simply closing the session after the first secret is sent to
the client). This library is *not* thread-safe. This library uses EPID based
RA-TLS flows underneath.

The library expects the same configuration information in the manifest and
environment variables as RA-TLS.

``secret_prov_verify_dcap.so``
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

Similarly to ``secret_prov_verify_epid.so``, this library is used in
secret-provisioning services. The only difference is that this library uses
DCAP based RA-TLS flows underneath.

The library uses the same SGX-specific environment variables as
``secret_prov_verify_epid.so`` and ignores the EPID-specific environment
variables. The library expects all the DCAP infrastructure to be installed and
working correctly on the host.
