.\" $Id$
.TH BARGRAPH 1
.SH NAME
bargraph \- compile bar graphs into pic input
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B bargraph
[
.I filename
\&.\|.\|.
]
.SH DESCRIPTION
.LP
.B bargraph
is a perl script which
takes a set of Y data with labels and generates a (human readable) pic script
that will produce the bar graph.  
The output (pic input) is commented and is designed such that you should be 
able to go in and adjust it to fit your document should you need to do so.
.LP
The input data format is:
.sp
.nf
.in +4
3 foo bar 
9 bigger foo 
"Silly example
.in
.fi
.sp
with output like
.sp
.nf
.in +2
.ft CW
                    bigger
                     foo
                 +----------+
                 |          |
      foo        |          |
      bar        |          |
  +----------+   |          |
  |          |   |          |
  +----------+   +----------+
-------------------------------
       3              9

        Silly example
.ft
.in
.fi
.SH OPTIONS
The following command line options are available
.TP 10
-big
Make the x/y defaults be 7.5 inches, crank up the title size, and don't
put a spacer at the top.  Used for printing a graph on a full page.
.TP
-nobox
Do not put an outline box around the bargraph.
.SH "CONTROL OPTIONS"
The following may be included in the graph to control the format
of the graph.  They must be at the beginning of a line and by themselves.
.TP 18
%ps <ps>
point size.  Default is 10.
.TP
%ft <ft>
font.  Default is CB.
.TP
%labelgap <val>
the space in inches between fill labels.  The bars may be filled with different
fill values (no patterns yet, pic doesn't do that).  If you want to label 
these, the labels are labelgap inches apart.  Default is 1.5 inches.
.TP
%xsize <val>
the width of the graph in inches.  Default is 7 inches.
.TP
%ysize <val>
the height of the graph in inches.  Default is 6 inches.
.TP
%Title n|s <title>
the title of the bargraph.  The title option is followed by a
a "n"orth (top) or "s"outh (bottom) indicator which controls placement 
of the title.  No default.
.TP
%titleplus <val>
increases the size of the title in pointsize.  Default is 0.
.TP
%boxpercent <val>
a value between 0 and 100 that controls how closely the
bars are to each other.  A value of 100 means the bars touch.
Default is 75.
.TP
%worse <D> <W>
An idiot arrow is drawn to indicate which way is worse.  
<D> is the direction and must be "up" or "down". 
<W> is the location specifier and must be one of
"n"orth, "w"est, "e"ast, "s"outh, "nw" northwest, ne, sw, se, etc.
.TP
%better <D> <W>
An idiot arrow is drawn to indicate which way is better.
<D> is the direction and must be "up" or "down". 
<W> is the location specifier and must be one of
"n"orth, "w"est, "e"ast, "s"outh, "nw" northwest, ne, sw, se, etc.
.TP
%fakemax
pretend that one data point was this big when autoscaling.  THis
is used to make a series of bargraphs be all drawn to the same
scale.
.SH "FILL CONTROL"
Each datum may be follwed by a fill specifier as follows
.sp .5
.ti +.5i
3 foo bar %fill.5
.sp  .5
Labels may be specified to group a set of data that all have
the same data.  If a line appears like
.sp .5
.ti +.5i
%label.5 The foo bar data
.sp .5
then you get a label below the graph.
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.BR gtroff (1),
.BR graph (1),
.BR gpic (1)
.SH TODO
Make a -horizontal option that prints the graphs the other way.
.LP
Hack pick to get access to postscripts stipple patterns.
.SH BUGS
This isn't done.  It isn't integrated with the groff preprocessor yet.
It doesn't know about .GS/.GE thingys.  I use it to manually generate
a pic file and then include that.  I have to talk to James to
see if he wants it as part of the gpic stuff.
