.\" $Id$
.de DS
.	sp .5
.	nf
.	in +4
.	ft CW
.	vs -1
..
.de DE
.	sp .5
.	fi
.	in
.	ft
.	vs
..
.TH RCCS 1 "Nov, 1995" "lm@sgi.com" "Programmers tools"
.SH NAME
rccs \- apply RCS commands to sets of files
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B rccs
command
[ options ]
[
.I filename
and/or
.I directory
\&.\|.\|.
]
.SH DESCRIPTION
.LP
.B rccs
is a perl script that tries to emulate the Berkeley \fBSCCS\fP program
for \fBRCS\fP.  If your fingers know how to type commands to \fBSCCS\fP,
just do the same thing to \fBrccs\fP.
.LP
A subset of the \fBSCCS\fP commands are implemented, the ones that I use.
Some new commands have been added.  It is easy to add more commands, see
the \fIExample\fP routine at the bottom of \fBrccs\fP to see how.
.LP
This interface does not require a list of files/directories for most
commands; the implied list is *,v and/or RCS/*,v.  Destructive commands,
such as clean -f, unedit, unget, do \fBnot\fP have an implied list.  In
other words, \f(CBrccs diffs\fP is the same as \f(CBrccs diffs RCS\fP
but \f(CBrccs unedit\fP is not the same as \f(CBrccs unedit RCS\fP.
.SH COMMANDS
.IP options 8
Note that RCS options are typically passed through to RCS.  The options
that made sense to SCCS commands are translated to RCS options.
.IP "ci" 10
Alias for delta.  Checks in files.
.IP "clean [-e] [-f] [-d|y'message'] [files]"
Without any arguments, this command removes all files that are read only
and have an associated RCS file.
With the -e argument, clean removes files that have been checked out
writable but have not been modified.
The -d|y|m option may be combined with -e to check in the set of files that
have been modified.
With the -f option, clean removes all working files, \fBincluding\fP files
that have been modified since the check out.  Be careful.
.IP co 
Alias for get.  Checks out files.
.IP "create [-y|d'message'] [-g] files"
Initial check in of files to the RCS system.  The files are then checked out
readonly unless the -g option is present.
The -y or -d options may be used to set the descriptive text message.
Differs from SCCS in that the
original files are not preserved.
.IP deledit 
Alias for delta followed by a get -e.
.IP delget 
Alias for delta followed by a get.
.IP "delta [-y|d'message'] [-q] [files]"
Check in a delta of the file.  -q is changed to RCS' -s and means to be 
quiet about hwat is happening.  -y'message' or -d'message' or -m'message'
all get sent through to RCS as the check in message.  No other arguments
are translated.
.IP "diffs [-C|c] [-r<rev>] [-sdiff] [files]"
Shows changes between the working files and the RCS file.  Note that the 
files do not need to be checked out, only writable.  -C or -c means do a 
context diff.  -sdiff means do a side by side diff.  The sdiff option will
figure out your screen width if it knows how - see the source to make this 
work on your system.
.IP edit 
Alias for get -e.
.IP enter 
Alias for create -g.
.IP fix 
Useful if you just checked in the file and then realized you forgot 
something.  The fix command will remove the top delta from the history
and leave you with an editable working file with the top delta as the
contents.
.IP "get [-e] [-p] [-k] [-s] [files]"
Get, or check out, the file.  Without any options, get just gets the 
latest revision of the RCS file in the working file.
With -e, check out the file writable.  With -p, send the file to stdout.
With -k, supress expansion of key words.  With -s, be quiet about what
is happening.
.IP help 
Get a brief help screen of information.
.IP "history [files]"
Print the RCS history (my format) of the specified files.
.IP "info [files]"
Print the list of files being edited.
.IP print 
Alias for a loop that prints the history of each file followed by the
contents of the file.
.IP prs 
Alias for history.
.IP prt 
Alias for history.
.IP unedit 
Alias for clean -f.
.IP unget 
Alias for clean -f.
.SH GLOBAL OPTIONS
.IP -debug 10
Turn on debugging.  Used when debugging \fBrccs\fP itself.
.IP -verbose
Be more verbose about what is happening.
.SH EXAMPLES
To start off, add a bunch of files to RCS:
.DS
rccs create -y'my program name' myprog.c myprog.h
.DE
Now let's edit them all:
.DS
rccs get -e
.DE
If we didn't change anything, the following gives us a clean directory:
.DS
rccs clean -e 
.DE
If we changed myprog.h, the following gives us a clean directory after
checking in myprog.h:
.DS
rccs clean -e -d'some message'
.DE
If we want to see what we changed:
.DS
rccs diffs
.DE
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.BR "RCS commands" ,
.BR "SCCS commands" ,
.BR sdiff (1),
.BR perl (1).
.SH TODO
It would be nice to implement a \fB-i\fP option that prompted before each 
action, especially the destructive ones.
